Good Afternoon to one and all .. This is M.Arjun here to take a seminar on conditional statements in python.
first of all what is condition
In layman terms condition means something that must happen so that something else can happen or be possible
so its time to get into the presentation
SLIDE 2:
In this conditional statement topic i'm going to cover topics such as 	if 	 ifelse		 elif 		nested if 	and at last i have an intresting question for you all
okay we'll go through the introduction first and then move on to types
SLIDE 3:
A conditional statement is used where a condition is existing and where it checks the condition and executes according to the truness of the condition.
the condition mentioned in that conditional statement is of type Boolean
SLIDE 4:
Importance of conditional statement .. we often use this word if in our day to day life ....
In programming without if we cannot write any condition 
SLIDE 5:
Here comes types of conditional statements:
the first is if,second is if else,third is elif and the fourth is nested if
lets see those topic one by one in detail
SLIDE 6:
soo if statement is one of the most easiest one to understand and also to code
condition is followed by if statement where the condition can be written using any operator 
IF i enrolled myself for taking seminar
then i should make a ppt
SLIDE 7:
Here is the sample program for if statement and the output is shown below.
SLIDE 8:
IF ELSE is used when you want to execute something when the condition is false
IF i'm buying something.... i have to pay for it
ELSE i dont have to pay for it
SLIDE 9:
Here is the sample program for if else statement and the output is shown below.
SLIDE 10:
ELIF (EL from else) and adding IF to it .
this is used to add multiple conditions between if else conditions
Adding elif gives some preciseness to the output
SLIDE 11:
Here you can see the sample program for elif statement and the output is displayed below
SLIDE 12:
Coming to the last topic IF ELSE ladder
in this you can code a conditional statement inside an other one 
This is more precise compared to any type of conditional statement
Becoz u can add n number conditional statements one inside the other.
SLIDE 13:
Here you can see the sample program for nested if statement and the output is displayed below
SLIDE 14:
Here comes the question .. the question is to find the age with the help of if else and you can prompt the user 6 times soo that you find their age in maximum of 6 chances . constraints are( Here the min value of age is 0 and the max value of age is 100 ) (Hint: use for loop)
Thanks for listening.





